Using the C++ (3.0 points) or the C++/CUDA (4.0 points) language, write a simulation system capable of
modeling the movement of a large number of pedestrians (called agents) within an urban environment
represented by a matrix. The program performs the following steps:
● It receives two parameters on the command line: A file name FNAME and an integer value N.
3
● It reads the ASCII file FNAME. This stores an enormous matrix. The first line of the matrix reports its
size. Each subsequent line of the file reports a row of the matrix: A value equal to zero indicates that
the cell is empty, and a long integer number indicates the ID of an agent (pedestrian). Values are
separated by single spaces. The following is an example of such a matrix:
1048576 1048576
0 0 0 12 0 13456 0 0 0 …
234567 0 0 0 0 0 0 3535 0 0 0 …
…
● It runs through a cycle N times and, for each iteration, it runs a thread (directly in C++ or through a
kernel in C++/CUDA) for each cell of the matrix.
● Each thread simulates the random walk of an agent in the matrix:
○ If the cell contains a value equal to zero, the thread does nothing.
○ If the cell contains a value different from zero (i.e., an agent), it randomly decides in which cell,
among the at most eight contiguous cells, the agent will move at the next iteration. In CUDA
suppose that there is a function named my_curand() that generates a random number
included in the range [0, 1], and returns it. Then it uses the atomic operation
int atomicCAS(int* address, int compare, int val);
to move the agent in the selected contiguous cells.
The “atomic compare and swap instruction” gets the value old from the cell pointed by
address and performs the following operation:
(old == compare ? val : old)
That is, if the destination cell pointed by address (and storing value old) contains zero (i.e.,
compare), the thread writes in that cell val (i.e., the ID of its agent), otherwise, it writes old
back. Obviously, agents must move inside the matrix, never get out of it, no two agents can
occupy the same cell during the same simulation cycle, and, eventually, an agent can remain in
the same cell.
● After each iteration, all threads must synchronize before performing the next iteration and moving all
agents again